---
title: Cloud Manager v0.39.0
date: 2018-11-19
version: 0.39.0
---
### Breaking:

- User management has been merged into the account section.
    - The Account & Billing and Users navigation items have been removed in favor of just "Account".
    - This caused breaking changes to the URL pattern.
        - /users -> account/users
        - /users/stevemcqueen -> /account/users/stevemcqueen
        - /users/stevemcqueen/permissions -> /account/users/stevemcqueen/permissions

### Added:

- Domains can now be tagged and will be included in search results when searching for tags.
- Linode Backups
    - Users can now enable automatic backups for all existing Linodes which do not have backups.
    - Users can now enroll in automatic backups for all newly created Linodes.
    - Added backup information and actions on the dashboard.
    - Added time since last backup to the list view of user's Linodes.
- Pricing information has been added to the;
    - Volume creation drawer
    - Volumes call to action placeholder
    - Backups call to action placeholderM
- Updated by/closed by details to support tickets.
- Breadcrumb navigation to Linodes, NodeBalancers, Domains, and Support Tickets.

### Changed:

- We're now preventing users from submitting the create a support ticket form until all necessary information has been provided.
- Hide the "current credit card" if there is no credit card on file.
- The CPU chart on the Linode detail page has been updated to scale the to usage.
- Details about a Linode and Domains are no longer tucked away in accordions.
- Payments and invoices are now sorted by descending date (newest first).
- We've made some mobile friendly adjustments to the display of our menu!
- Documentation links now have a persistent underline to make it clear they're links.
- Providing feedback via Hively now opens in a new window.
- Made tab navigation much easier on mobile.
- Enhanced select styles are now visually consistent with regular selects.

### Fixed:

- Side navigation was hidden for certain users.
- Toggling between grid and list view on the Linodes screen would not persist event progress information.
- Attempting to delete the active user would crash the application. (Hey, it's better than deleting yourself!)
- TTL can now be set/changed for MX records.
- Booting from a user created configuration was failing.
- H1s are now used only once per page site-wide.