---
title: Cloud Manager v0.45.0
date: 2019-01-14
version: 0.45.0
---

### Added:

- Disk storage information modal in Linode > Settings > Advanced
- Grouping of Domains by tags on Domain listing page.
- Add payment PDF generation
- Add invoice PDF generation
- Display loading until images are available.
    - Source images data from Redux.
    - Add images to Redux on load.
- Improved Linode listing page table.
    - Remove + icon to display all ip addresses on Linode row.
    - Hide copy icon for ip addresses until hover.
    - The icon for a Linode was added to the Linode row.
    - Plan column removed, Linode plan and details now listed under the label in the Linodes columns.
    - Added a column for tags.
* Account tab for StackScripts, lists all scripts created on the account the user has permissions to read/write.
    - If an account user does not have access to StackScripts, then a message indicating the user does not have the proper permissions will display.
- Trusted Device table in My Profile> Password & Authentication> New section titled Trusted Devices.
    - Lists devices that have been active on the account for the past 30 days, device name and browser used.
    - Ability to untrust/delete a trusted device.

### Changed:

- Explicitly check for errors before setting local storage.
- Move image toast logic to ToastNotifications.tsx
- Allow submitting empty array for IP sharing
- Explicitly declaring background color on table cells for printer compatibility.
- Update documentation. Update casing on label.
- Set default image in Create from Image flow.
- Default label name during Linode creation.
- Update react-dev-utils and webpack-dev-server
- Update Radio Input Label text size on Create Volume drawer
- Update pagination styling
- Update source Linode on linode\_clone schedule/start
- Refactor domains dashboard card to use Redux state
- Update community events, make all clickable.
- Update dashboard transfer card to new design
- Add Render Guard to Contact Info/Config Forms
- Change Pagination Controls to handle many pages
- Add Reduxed images to LinodeRebuild
- Improved error handling.
- Respond to community\_like events, display in menu
- Update Copy Around Restricted Users
- Update search results size limit to 100
- Capitalize Linode progress bar text

### Fixed:

- Credit card payment request CCV field.
- Safari auto-fill on root password reset.
- Parse timestamps in UTC for notifications.
- Hide radio buttons on edit disk drawer.
- Display notice on successful deletion of a user.
- Submission of the enable back ups for all Linodes drawer caused duplicate listings of Linodes.
- Display Scratch Code when enabling 2FA
