---
title: Cloud Manager v0.48.0
date: 2019-02-11
version: 0.48.0
---

### Added:

- Support tickets now appended with current Cloud Manager version.
- Individual Node status in NodeBalancer Detail > Configuration > Ports
- Implemented pagination on all Domain DNS records, for example a user with over 25 A/AAAA records will have a paginated table in Domain > DNS records page.
- Public and Private IP addresses are now searchable fields, displaying the corresponding Linode in the search suggestion dropdown.
- Sidebar components in Account Settings page:
    - Contact information component displaying company name, name, address, email, and phone number.
    - Billing information component displaying current account balance, credit card, and credit card expiration date.

### Changed:

- Linode summary moved to the sidebar with individual components for:
    - Linode details
    - IP addresses
    - Last backup
    - Tags
- NodeBalancer summary moved to the sidebar with individual components for:
    - NodeBalancer details
    - IP addresses
    - Tags
- Domain Tags input field moved to the sidebar in an individual component
- Underlined text removed from application, notably:
    - Breadcrumb headers
    - Event notifications
    - Help landing page
    - Secondary links in table rows
- Backups CTA is now dismissible.
- NodeBalancer ports now clickable links on the NodeBalancer listing page
    - When a NodeBalancer port is clicked, the user is navigated to the Port Configuration page with the accordion panel of the port clicked expanded by default.
- NodeBalancer Graphs were removed from accordion panels, and are now displayed prominently on the NodeBalancer summary page.
- Disks added to Linodes default to the maximum size, so the user can adjust form there.
- In the additions disks table located in Linode Detail > Settings > Advanced Configuration now display the disk file system type located between the label and size columns.
- The option to reboot a Linode is removed unless the Linode is powered on.
- Only regions with block storage available are displayed in Volume creation panel.
    - Additional messaging added to Volume creation panel informing user of the data center limitations.

### Fixed:

- Typo in Manual Snapshot copy.
- Spacing of Grouped NodeBalancer headers.
