---
title: API v4.3.2
date: 2019-08-26
version: 4.3.2
---

### Added

- Added the Update Managed Credential Username and Password ([POST /managed/credentials/{credentialId}/update](/docs/api/managed/#managed-credential-username-and-password-update)) endpoint.

### Changed

- The maximum credit card payment that can be made with the Make Payment ([POST /account/payments](/docs/api/account/#payments-list)) endpoint is \$50,000. This value has not changed, but previously this endpoint would return an HTTP 500 error for payments over this amount. If a payment is attempted with this endpoint that exceeds this limit, an HTTP 400 error with a descriptive error message will now be returned.

- The number of concurrent clone operations for any given Linode is now limited to five clones. If a call to the Clone Linode ([POST /linode/instances/{linodeId}/clone](/docs/api/linode-instances/#linode-clone)) endpoint would result in a sixth concurrent clone of a Linode, then the endpoint will return an HTTP 400 error with a descriptive error message.

### Fixed

- Previously, the _access_ boolean of the _ssh_ property of a Linode's Managed Settings would display _true_ whenever Managed SSH access was disabled for the Linode, and _false_ when it was enabled, contrary to the naming of the property. This property is returned by the List Managed Linode Settings ([GET /managed/linode-settings](/docs/api/managed/#managed-linode-settings-list)) and View Linode's Managed Settings ([GET /managed/linode-settings/{linodeId}](/docs/api/managed/#linodes-managed-settings-view)) endpoints. This property will now correctly display _true_ when Managed SSH access is enabled and _false_ when Managed SSH access is disabled.

    Similarly, setting this property to _true_ via the Update Linode's Managed Settings ([PUT /managed/linode-settings/{linodeId}](/docs/api/managed/#linodes-managed-settings-update)) endpoint would result in Managed SSH access for the Linode being disabled, and setting it to _false_ would result in Managed SSH access being enabled. This behavior is now reversed to align with the naming of the property.
