---
description: "Deploy HashiCorp Nomad Cluster, a flexible scheduling and orchestration for diverse workloads, on Linode Compute Instances.'"
keywords: ['HashiCorp','Nomad','Scheduling', 'orchestration']
tags: ["marketplace", "linode platform", "cloud manager"]
published: 2023-08-01
modified_by:
  name: Linode
title: "Deploy HashiCorp Nomad Cluster through the Linode Marketplace"
authors: ["Linode"]
---

[HashiCorp Nomad](https://www.nomadproject.io/) is a simple and flexible scheduler and orchestrator to deploy and manage containers and non-containerized applications across cloud platforms (and on-premises servers) at scale.

{{< note type="warning" title="Marketplace App Cluster Notice" >}} This Marketplace App deploys 3, 5 or 7 Compute Instances to horizontally scale an existing HashiCorp Nomad Cluster, with the plan type and size that you select. Please be aware that each of these Compute Instances will appear on your invoice as separate items. To instead deploy Hashicorp Nomad on a single Compute Instance, see [Deploy Hashicorp Nomad through the Linode Marketplace](https://www.linode.com/docs/products/tools/marketplace/guides/hashicorp-nomad/). {{< /note >}}

## Deploying a Marketplace App

{{< content "deploy-marketplace-apps-shortguide">}}

{{< content "marketplace-verify-standard-shortguide">}}

{{< note >}}
**Estimated deployment time:** Nomad Cluster should be fully installed within 15-20 minutes after the Compute Instance has finished provisioning.
{{< /note >}}

## Configuration Options

- **consul_nomad_autojoin_token:** This token is generated by the [HashiCorp Nomad Cluster](../hashicorp-nomad-cluster/index.md). *required*
- **Supported distributions:** Ubuntu 22.04 LTS,
- **Recommended plan:** Nomad Clients can be of any size. 

{{< content "marketplace-limited-user-fields-shortguide">}}

{{< content "marketplace-special-character-limitations-shortguide">}}

## Nomad Client Options 

- **Linode API Token** *(required)*: Your API token is used to deploy additional Compute Instances as part of this cluster. At a minimum, this token must have Read/Write access to *Linodes*. If you do not yet have an API token, see [Get an API Access Token](/docs/products/tools/api/guides/manage-api-tokens/) to create one.

- **consul_nomad_autojoin_token** This token is generated by the [HashiCorp Nomad Cluster](../hashicorp-nomad-cluster/index.md). *required*

- **Limited sudo user** *(required)*: A limited user account with sudo access is created as part of this cluster deployment. Enter your preferred username for this limited user. Please note that the password is automatically created. See [Obtaining Usernames and Passwords](#obtaining-usernames-and-passwords).

- **Add SSH Keys to all nodes?** If you select *yes*, any SSH Keys that are added to the root user account (in the **SSH Keys** section), are also added to your limited user account on all deployed Compute Instances.

- **Nomad cluster size:** Select the preferred number of clients from the available options (3, 5 or 7)

## Getting Started after Deployment

### Accessing the Nomad Web UI

Nomad clients are not interacted with directly. Please see [HashiCorp Nomad Cluster](../hashicorp-nomad-cluster/index.md) for information on viewing the front-end and scheduling jobs for a Nomad Cluster.

{{< content "marketplace-update-note-shortguide">}}