---
author:
  name: Linode Community
  email: docs@linode.com
description: 'Learn frequently-used troubleshooting commands for Kubernetes and review common Kubernetes issues.'
keywords: ['kubernetes','cluster','troubleshooting','k8s','kubectl']
license: '[CC BY-ND 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0)'
published: 2019-07-01
modified_by:
  name: Linode
title: "Troubleshooting Kubernetes"
external_resources:
- '[Kubernetes Documentation - Troubleshooting](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/troubleshooting/)'
---

<!-- EDITOR'S NOTE: This guide is split into two halves:

1. A reference for commands and options to use when debugging
2. A list of common problems

I can't really think of all the common problems that could might appear, so I've set up a few to start, and I'm imagining that the list could be expanded over time. We should consider advertising to Support that we would welcome JIRA tickets with recommendations to get addeed to the list, if they start to see certain problems more often. -->

Troubleshooting issues with Kubernetes can be complex, and it can be difficult to account for all the possible error conditions you may see. This guide will try to equip you with the core tools that can be useful when troubleshooting and will introduce some situations that you may find yourself in.

If your issue is not covered by this guide, we also recommend researching and posting in the [Linode Community Questions](https://www.linode.com/community/questions/) site and `#linode` on the [Kubernetes Slack Channel](http://slack.k8s.io/), where other Linode users can offer advice.

In this guide we will:

-   [Refer to the most-frequently used commands](#general-troubleshooting-strategies) when troubleshooting a cluster and find out where your Kubernetes logs are stored.
-   [Review some common issues](#troubleshooting-examples) that can appear on your cluster.


## General Troubleshooting Strategies

To troubleshoot issues with the applications running on your cluster, you can rely on the [`kubectl` command](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/cheatsheet/) to gather debugging information. `kubectl` includes a set of subcommands that can be used to research issues with your cluster, and this guide will highlight four of them: [get](#kubectl-get), [describe](#kubectl-describe), [logs](#kubectl-logs), and [exec](#kubectl-exec).

To troubleshoot issues with your cluster, you may need to [directly view the logs](#viewing-master-and-worker-logs) that are generated by Kubernetes' components.

### kubectl get

Use the [`get` command](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#get) to list different kinds of resources in your cluster (`nodes`, `pods`, `services`, etc). The output will show the status for each resource returned. For example, this output shows that a pod is in the `CrashLoopBackOff` status, which means it should be investigated further:

    kubectl get pods
    NAME              READY     STATUS             RESTARTS   AGE
    ghost-0           0/1       CrashLoopBackOff   34         2h
    mariadb-0         1/1       Running            0          2h

-   Use the `--namespace` flag to show resources in a certain namespace:

        # Show pods in the `kube-system` namespace
        kubectl get pods --namespace kube-system

    {{< note >}}
If you've set up Kubernetes using most automated solutions like Linode's Kubernetes Engine, [k8's Alpha CLI](https://www.linode.com/docs/applications/containers/how-to-deploy-kubernetes-on-linode-with-k8s-alpha-cli/), or [Rancher](http://localhost:1313/docs/applications/containers/how-to-deploy-kubernetes-on-linode-with-rancher-2-2/), you'll see [csi-linode](https://github.com/linode/linode-blockstorage-csi-driver) and [ccm-linode](https://github.com/linode/linode-cloud-controller-manager) pods in the `kube-system` namespace. This is normal as long as they're in the running status.
{{< /note >}}


-   You can specify the [`-o` flag](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/overview/#output-options) to return the resources as YAML or JSON. The Kubernetes API's complete description for the returned resources will be shown:

        # Get pods as YAML API objects
        kubectl get pods -o yaml

-   The returned resources can be sorted with the `--sort-by` flag:

        # Sort by name
        kubectl get pods --sort-by=.metadata.name

-   Use the `--selector` or `-l` flag to get resources that match a label. This is useful for finding all pods for a given service:

        # Get pods which match the app=ghost selector
        kubectl get pods -l app=ghost

-   Use the [`--field-selector` flag](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/field-selectors/) to return resources which match different resource fields:

        # Get all pods that are Pending
        kubectl get pods --field-selector status.phase=Pending

        # Get all pods that are not in the kube-system namespace
        kubectl get pods --field-selector metadata.namespace!=kube-system


### kubectl describe

Use the [`describe` command](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#describe) to return a detailed report of the state of one or more resources in your cluster. Pass a resource type to the `describe` command to get a report for each of those resources:

    kubectl describe nodes

You pass the name of a resource to get a report for just that object:

    kubectl describe pods ghost-0

You can also use the `--selector` (`-l`) flag to filter the returned resources, as with the `get` command.

### kubectl logs

Use the [`logs` command](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#logs) to print logs collected by a pod:

    kubectl logs mariadb-0

-   You can use the `--selector` (`-l`) flag to print logs from all pods that match a selector:

        kubectl logs -l app=ghost

-   If a pod's container was killed and restarted, you can view the previous container's logs with the `--previous` or `-p` flag:

        kubectl logs -p ghost-0

### kubectl exec

You can run arbitrary commands on a pod's container by passing them to kubectl's [`exec` command](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#exec):

    kubectl exec mariadb-0 -- ps aux

The full syntax for the command is:

    kubectl exec ${POD_NAME} -c ${CONTAINER_NAME} -- ${CMD} ${ARG1} ${ARG2} ... ${ARGN}

{{< note >}}
The `-c` flag is optional, and is only needed when the specified pod is running more than one container.
{{< /note >}}

It is possible to run an interactive shell on an existing pod/container. Pass the `-it` flags to `exec` and run the shell:

    kubectl exec -it mariadb-0 -- /bin/bash

Enter `exit` to later leave this shell.

### Viewing Master and Worker Logs

If you have set up Kubernetes using a method that does not include [**systemd**](https://linode.com/docs/quick-answers/linux-essentials/what-is-systemd/), the location of logs on your master nodes are in most cases as follows:

- `/var/log/kube-apiserver.log` - [API server](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-apiserver/)
- `/var/log/kube-scheduler.log` - [Scheduler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-scheduler/ )
- `/var/log/kube-controller-manager.log` - [Replication controller manager](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-controller-manager/)

On your worker nodes:

- `/var/log/kubelet.log` - [Kubelet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/)
- `/var/log/kube-proxy.log` - [Kube proxy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-proxy/)

If you do have systemd implemented, then the above logs will not be accessible and you'll need to access kubelet logs using `journalctl` instead. Below is an example command for accessing kubelet logs through journalctl:

    journalctl --unit kubelet

In some cases, the information you find from kubelet may prompt you to look into individual container logs for more information. When using Docker as a container runtime, you can find information on all running containers with the `docker ps` command. For example, to find the container running your API server, enter the following:

    docker ps | grep apiserver

Then, using the container ID that appears, enter `docker logs` to view the logs for your API server:

    docker logs CONTAINER_ID

## Troubleshooting Examples

### Viewing the Wrong Cluster

If your `kubectl` commands are not returning the resources and information you expect, then your client may be assigned to the wrong cluster context. To view all of the cluster contexts on your system, run:

    kubectl config get-contexts

An asterisk will appear next to the active context:

    CURRENT   NAME                                        CLUSTER            AUTHINFO
              my-cluster-kayciZBRO5s@my-cluster           my-cluster         my-cluster-kayciZBRO5s
    *         other-cluster-kaUzJOMWJ3c@other-cluster     other-cluster      other-cluster-kaUzJOMWJ3c

To switch to another context, run:

    kubectl config use-context ${CLUSTER_NAME}

E.g.:

    kubectl config use-context my-cluster-kayciZBRO5s@my-cluster

### Can't Provision Cluster Nodes

If you are not able to create new nodes in your cluster, you may see an error message similar to:

{{< output >}}
Error creating a Linode Instance: [400] Account Limit reached. Please open a support ticket.
{{< /output >}}

This is a reference to the total number of Linode resources that can exist on your account. To create new Linode instances for your cluster, you will need to either remove other instances on your account, or request a limit increase. To request a limit increase, [contact Linode Support](/docs/platform/billing-and-support/support/#contacting-linode-support).

### Insufficient CPU or Memory

If one of your pods requests more memory or CPU than is available on your worker nodes, then one of these scenarios may happen:

-  The pod will remain in the Pending state, because the scheduler cannot find a node to run it on. This will be visible when running `kubectl get pods`.

    If you run the `kubectl describe` command on your pod, the Events section may list a `FailedScheduling` event, along with a message like `Failed for reason PodExceedsFreeCPU and possibly others`. You can run `kubectl describe nodes` to view [information about the allocated resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-compute-resources-container/#my-pods-are-pending-with-event-message-failedscheduling) for each node.

-   The pod may continually crash. For example, the [Ghost](https://ghost.org) pod specified by [Ghost's Helm chart](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/ghost) will show the following error in its logs when not enough memory is available:

        kubectl logs ghost --tail=5
        1) SystemError

        Message: You are recommended to have at least 150 MB of memory available for smooth operation. It looks like you have ~58 MB available.

If your cluster has insufficient resources for a new pod, you will need to:

-   Reduce the number of other pods/depoloyments/applications running on your cluster,
-   [Resize the Linode instances](https://linode.com/docs/platform/disk-images/resizing-a-linode/) that represent your worker nodes to a higher-tier plan, or
-   Add a new worker node to your cluster.