---
slug: mongodb-example-shortguide
description: 'Shortguide that displays usage example for MongoDB.'
license: '[CC BY-ND 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0)'
modified: 2020-03-11
modified_by:
  name: Heather Zoppetti
published: 2020-03-11
title: MongoDB Example
keywords: []
headless: true
show_on_rss_feed: false
tags: ["database"]
aliases: ['/databases/mongodb/mongodb-example-shortguide/']
authors: ["Linode"]
---

Much of MongoDB's popularity comes from its ease of integration. Interactions with databases are done via JavaScript methods, but [drivers for other languages](https://docs.mongodb.com/ecosystem/drivers/) are available. This section will demonstrate a few basic features, but we encourage you to do further research based on your specific use case.

1.  Open the MongoDB shell using the `example-user` we created above:

        mongo -u example-user -p --authenticationDatabase user-data

1.  Create a new database. This example calls it `exampleDB`:

        use exampleDB

    Make sure that this database name corresponds with the one for which the user has read and write permissions (we added these permissions in the previous section).

    To show the name of the current working database, run the `db` command.

1.  Create a new *collection* called `exampleCollection`:

        db.createCollection("exampleCollection", {capped: false})

    If you're not familiar with MongoDB terminology, you can think of a collection as analogous to a table in a relational database management system. For more information on creating new collections, see the MongoDB documentation on the [db.createCollection() method](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/db.createCollection/).

    {{< note respectIndent=false >}}
Collection names should not include certain punctuation such as hyphens. However, exceptions may not be raised until you attempt to use or modify the collection. For more information, refer to MongoDB's [naming restrictions](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/limits/#naming-restrictions).
{{< /note >}}

1.  Create sample data for entry into the test database. MongoDB accepts input as *documents* in the form of JSON objects such as those below. The `a` and `b` variables are used to simplify entry; objects can be inserted directly via functions as well.

        var a = { name : "John Doe",  attributes: { age : 30, address : "123 Main St", phone : 8675309 }}
        var b = { name : "Jane Doe",  attributes: { age : 29, address : "321 Main Rd", favorites : { food : "Spaghetti", animal : "Dog" } }}

    Note that documents inserted into a collection need not have the same schema, which is one of many benefits of using a NoSQL database.

1.  Insert the data into `exampleCollection`, using the `insert` method:

        db.exampleCollection.insert(a)
        db.exampleCollection.insert(b)

    The output for each of these operations will show the number of objects successfully written to the current working database:

    {{< output >}}
WriteResult({ "nInserted" : 1 })
{{</ output >}}

1.  Confirm that the `exampleCollection` collection was properly created:

        show collections

    The output will list all collections containing data within the current working database:

    {{< output >}}
exampleCollection
{{</ output >}}

1.  View unfiltered data in the `exampleCollection` collection using the `find` method. This returns up to the first 20 documents in a collection, if a query is not passed:

        db.exampleCollection.find()

    The output will resemble the following:

    {{< output >}}
{ "_id" : ObjectId("5e68d4618bd4ea23cc3f5e96"), "name" : "John Doe", "attributes" : { "age" : 30, "address" : "123 Main St", "phone" : 8675309 } }
{ "_id" : ObjectId("5e68d4628bd4ea23cc3f5e97"), "name" : "Jane Doe", "attributes" : { "age" : 29, "address" : "321 Main Rd", "favorites" : { "food" : "Spaghetti", "animal" : "Dog" } } }
{{</ output >}}

    You may notice the objects we entered are preceded by `_id` keys and `ObjectId` values. These are unique indexes generated by MongoDB when an `_id` value is not explicitly defined. `ObjectId` values can be used as primary keys when entering queries, although for ease of use, you may wish to create your own index as you would with any other database system.

    The `find` method can also be used to search for a specific document or field by entering a search term parameter (in the form of an object) rather than leaving it empty. For example:

        db.exampleCollection.find({"name" : "John Doe"})

    Running the command above returns a list of documents containing the `{"name" : "John Doe"}` object:

    {{< output >}}
{ "_id" : ObjectId("5e68d4618bd4ea23cc3f5e96"), "name" : "John Doe", "attributes" : { "age" : 30, "address" : "123 Main St", "phone" : 8675309 } }
{{</ output >}}
