---
title: API v4.0.23
date: 2019-05-20
version: 4.0.23
---

### Added

- View a Linode's network transfer pool statistics for the current month.
    - GET [/linode/instances/{linodeId}/transfer](/docs/api/linode-instances/#network-transfer-view) returns a collection with properties *used*, *quota*, and *billable*.
- Added new actions *linode\_resize\_create*, *linode\_mutate\_create*, and *lish\_boot* to List (GET [/account/events](/docs/api/account/#events-list)) and View (GET [/account/events/{eventId}](/docs/api/account/#event-view)) Events.
- Added *allow\_auto\_disk\_resize* flag to Resize Linode endpoint (POST [/linode/instances/{linodeId}/resize](/docs/api/linode-instances/#linode-resize)).

### Changed

- Changed validation criteria when updating (PUT [/linode/instances/{linodeId}/configs/{configId}](/docs/api/linode-instances/#configuration-profile-update)) the *devices* property for a Linode's configuration profile.

    - An empty *devices* object or a *devices* object with empty values for *device* slots is allowed on PUT only if an empty device map already exits. An error will result if a non-empty device map exists for the Linode's configuration profile.
    - If no devices are specified, booting from this configuration will hold waiting for a device to exist before being able to boot.
    - Previous validation produced an error in all cases when an empty *device* object or a devices object with empty values for device slots was passed on PUT.
- Changed validation criteria and behavior when creating (POST [/linode/instances/{linodeId}/configs](/docs/api/linode-instances/#configuration-profiles-list)) and updating (PUT [/linode/instances/{linodeId}/configs/{configId}](/docs/api/linode-instances/#configuration-profile-update))the *root\_device* property for a Linode's configuration profile.
    - If no value or an invalid value is provided, *root\_device* will default to */dev/sda*.
    - Previous validation for PUT would result in an error when no value was provided for *root\_device* and an empty device map existed for the Linode's configuration profile.
    - If the device specified at the root device location is not mounted, the Linode will not boot until a device is mounted.

### Fixed

- *page* query string parameter no longer errors on large page number values. If the value of *page* exceeds *2^64/page\_size*, the last possible page will be returned.
- *swap\_size* property no longer enforces a max limit when creating a Linode (POST [/linode/instances](/docs/api/linode-instances/#linode-create)).
- *account:read\_only* scope is now enforced when listing Account notifications (GET [/account/notifications](/docs/api/account/#notifications-list)).
- Fix pagination metadata when listing Volumes (GET [/volumes](/docs/api/volumes/#volumes-list)) for accounts that have 100+ Volumes.
