---
title: API v4.142.1
date: 2023-01-10
version: 4.142.1
---

### Changed

* **Linode Clone** ([POST /linode/instances/{linodeId}/clone](/docs/api/linode-instances/linode-clone/))
  * Cloned Linodes can now be created with an assigned private IPv4 address when cloning to a new Linode.

* **Kubernetes Clusters List** ([GET /lke/clusters](/docs/api/linode-kubernetes-engine-lke/kubernetes-clusters-list/))
  * Response data for this command are now filterable by the `k8s_version` and `region` properties.

* **Maintenance List** ([GET /account/maintenance](/docs/api/account/maintenance-list/))
  * This command is no longer in beta, and can now be accessed via the `https://api.linode.com/v4` server path.
  * This command now returns completed maintenance items. Previously, only pending maintenance items were returned with this command.

* **Volume Attach** ([POST /volumes/{volumeId}/attach](/docs/api/volumes/volume-attach/))

  **Volume Detach** ([POST /volumes/{volumeId}/detach](/docs/api/volumes/volume-detach/))
  * Events created by these commands now include the associated Linodes when attaching or detaching Block Storage Volumes.

### Fixed

* **Firewall Rules Update** ([PUT /networking/firewalls/{firewallId}/rules](/docs/api/networking/firewall-rules-update/))
  * Fixed a bug that prevented event creation when accessing this command. Now, an event is created when Firewall Rules are updated.

* Attempting to access or utilize a deleted StackScript now returns a 404 or 400 error, respectively. Previously, a 401 error was returned, which was inconsistent with the behavior of our other commands.

* Encoded StackScript data must not exceed 65535 characters in total length when making requests that involve Disk creation. Previously, requests that exceeded this limit resulted in a 500 error code with no additional information. Now, an error message is returned that references this limit.
