---
title: API v4.12.0
date: 2020-01-13
version: 4.12.0
---
### Changed

- Removed `edit_mode` as an option for a Domain's `status` property.
    - Use the [/domains](/docs/api/domains/domains-list/) collection to review your account's domains.
- Object Storage is out of Beta. All Object Storage endpoints now point to the /v4 server instead of the /v4beta server.

### Fixed

- When a restricted user with the `add_longview` grant creates a Longview client, that user should have `read_write` permissions on the new client.
    - The API correctly grants this permission, and so a user could make successful Update Longview Client ([PUT /longview/clients/{clientId}](/docs/api/longview/longview-client-update/)) endpoint requests for the new client.
    - However, the API would incorrectly report that the user had `read_only` permissions for that Longview client when viewed with the View User's Grants ([GET /account/users/{username}/grants](/docs/api/account/users-grants-view/)) endpoint.
    - This has been corrected, and this endpoint will now report `read_write` permissions for the new client.
- Fixed an issue where the `duration` of an Event with a `status` of `failed` would indefinitely increase.
- Fixed an issue where Isle of Man's country code was rejected by the Update Account ([PUT /account](/docs/api/account/account-update/)) endpoint.
- Updates to Domains:
    - Resolved an issue when importing domains which caused server errors for the API.
    - Previously, the API would only check if a CNAME for a Domain was unique among all of that Domain's CNAME records. The API will now check to make sure that a CNAME has a name that is unique among all of a Domain's records.
    - Use the [/domains](/docs/api/domains/domains-list/) collection to review your account's domains. Use the Import Domain ([POST /domains/import](/docs/api/domains/domain-import/)) to import domains with the API.
- Previously, the `last_successful` property of a Linode's `backups` property was documented as returning `None` if no backup had been completed for that Linode. The API actually returns `null` under this circumstance, and the documentation has been updated to reflect this.
    - Use the List Linodes ([GET /linode/instances](/docs/api/linode-instances/linodes-list/)) endpoint to list all of your Linodes, and use the View Linode ([GET /linode/instances/{instanceID}](/docs/api/linode-instances/linode-create/)) endpoint to view a single Linode.
- Updates to Invoices and InvoiceItems:
    - The API was inappropriately rounding the `unitprice` on InvoiceItems for certain Linode products. For example, the API would report .01 for the `unitprice` of an InvoiceItem for a Nanode, while the hourly cost of a Nanode is .0075. This issue did not affect the actual amount billed to a customer.
    - The `unitprice`, `amount`, `tax`, and `total` properties of an InvoiceItem and the `subtotal`, `tax`, and `total` properties of an Invoice were previously documented as having the type `integer`, but the API accepted and returned numbers with decimal points. The documentation for these types now list these properties as having the type `number`.
    - Removed `prepay` as an option for the `type` of an InvoiceItem in the API documentation. Prepaid billing reached end of life in March of 2019.
    - Use the List Invoices ([GET /account/invoices](/docs/api/account/invoices-list/)), View Invoice ([GET /account/invoices/{invoiceId}](/docs/api/account/invoice-view/)), and List Invoice Items ([GET](/docs/api/account/invoice-items-list/)
      [/account/invoices/{invoiceId}/items](/docs/api/account/invoice-items-list/)) endpoints to review your Invoices and InvoiceItems.
