---
title: API v4.176.0
date: 2024-05-14
version: 4.176.0
---

### Added

Several new endpoints in support of the [Placement Groups](/docs/products/compute/compute-instances/guides/placement-groups/) service launch (Limited Availability):

  - **Placement Groups List** ([GET /placement/groups)](/docs/api/placement/groups/#placement-groups-list))
  - **Placement Group View** ([GET /placement/groups/{id}](/docs/api/placement/groups/#placement-groups-view))
  - **Placement Group Create** ([POST /placement/groups/](/docs/api/placement/groups/#placement-group-create))
  - **Placement Group Update** ([PUT /placement/groups/](/docs/api/placement/groups/#placement-group-update))
  - **Placement Group Assign** ([POST /placement/groups/{id}/assign](/docs/api/placement/groups/#placement-group-assign))
  - **Placement Group Unassign** ([POST /placement/groups/{id}/unassign](/docs/api/placement/groups/#placement-group-unassign))
  - **Placement Group Delete** ([DELETE /placement/groups/{id}](/docs/api/placement/groups/#placement-group-delete))

### Changed

- Updated endpoints in support of the Placement Groups service launch (Limited Availability):

  - **Linodes List** ([GET /linode/instances](/docs/api/linode-instances/#linodes-list)) - Added `placement_group` object to show the placement group the Linode belongs to.
  - **Linode View** ([GET /linode/instances/{linodeId}](/docs/api/linode-instances/#linode-view)) - Added `placement_group` object to show the placement group the Linode belongs to.
  - **Linode Create** ([POST /linode/instances](/docs/api/linode-instances/#linode-create)) - Added `placement_group` parameter to include a new Linode in an existing placement group.
  - **Linode Clone** ([POST /linode/instances/{linodeId}/clone](/docs/api/linode-instances/#linode-clone)) - Added `placement_group` parameter to include the cloned Linode in an existing placement group.
  - **DC Migration/Pending Host Migration Initiate** ([POST /linode/instances/migrate](/docs/api/linode-instances/#dc-migrationpending-host-migration-initiate)) - Added `placement_group` parameter to include the migrated Linode in an existing placement group.
  - **Account View** ([GET /account](/docs/api/account/#account-view)) - Includes `Placement Group` in the `capabilities` array for accounts with access to the service.
  - **Region View** ([GET /regions/{regionId}](/docs/api/regions/#region-view)) - Included various parameters that describe placement group availability and limitations in a region.

- Updated account availability-related endpoints, to apply new functionality and bring them from beta to GA:

  - **Account Availability** ([GET /account/availability](/docs/api/account/#account-availability))
  - **Region Service Availability** ([GET /account/availability/{id}](/docs/api/account/#region-service-availability))

### Fixed

- **Service Transfer Create** ([POST /account/service-transfers](/docs/api/account/#service-transfer-create)). Included VPC in list of services that a Linode can't use.
- **VPC-related fixes**:
  - Corrections to `nat_1_1` objects for proper support.
  - Proper IP address formatting for VPC IP addresses.
  - **IP Addresses List** ([GET /linode/instances/{linodeId}/ips](/docs/api/networking/#ip-addresses-list)). Corrected response example to show VPC's displayed as objects in an array and added ipv4.vpc attribute to x-linode-cli-subtables.
- **Domain Clone** ([POST /domains/{domainId}/clone](/docs/api/domains/#domain-clone)). Updated regex examples to proper format.
- **IP Addresses List** ([GET /linode/instances/{linodeId}/ips](/docs/api/networking/#ip-addresses-list)). Replaced `requestBody` with query string.
- **Object Storage Bucket Contents List** ([GET /object-storage/buckets/{clusterId}/{bucket}/object-list](/docs/api/object-storage/#object-storage-bucket-contents-list)). Fixed incorrect response sample.
- **Parent/Child Account fixes** Applied pagination and missing warning message.