---
title: API v4.14.0
date: 2020-02-10
version: 4.14.0
---
### Added

- Added LKE node event `lke_node_create` to Event action list. See action information in the Event endpoints:
  - `List Events` ([GET /account/events](/docs/api/account/events-list/))
  - `View Event` ([GET /account/events/{eventId}](/docs/api/account/event-view/))

### Changed

- Updated the LKE Node Pool nodes array to return status information containing the node `id`, `instance_id` for the Linode if there is one, and node `status`. See the LKE Node Pool endpoints:
  - `List Node Pools` ([GET /lke/clusters/{clusterId}/pools](/docs/api/linode-kubernetes-engine-lke/node-pools-list/))
  - `Create Node Pool` ([POST /lke/clusters/{clusterId}/pools](/docs/api/linode-kubernetes-engine-lke/node-pool-create/))
  - `View Node Pool` ([GET /lke/clusters/{clusterId}/pools/{poolId}](/docs/api/linode-kubernetes-engine-lke/node-pool-view/))
  - `Update Node Pool` ([PUT /lke/clusters/{clusterId}/pools/{poolId}](/docs/api/linode-kubernetes-engine-lke/node-pool-update/))
  - `Delete Node Pool` ([DELETE /lke/clusters/{clusterId}/pools/{poolId}](/docs/api/linode-kubernetes-engine-lke/node-pool-delete/))

### Fixed

- Previously, `View Network Utilization` ([GET /account/transfer/](/docs/api/account/network-utilization-view/)) did not include Object Storage outgoing network transfer in its network utilization for the current month. If you have the Linode Object Storage service enabled on your account, `View Network Utilization` will now include Object Storage's outgoing network transfer in its total returned amount.
- When a Linode that was deployed from a [StackScript](/docs/api/stackscripts/stackscripts-list/) is deleted, that StackScript's `deployments_active` value should decrease. This property's value was incorrectly reporting the number of active deployments for a StackScript. This has been corrected.
- Previously, after booting a Linode into rescue mode ([POST /linode/instances/{linodeId}/rescue](/docs/api/linode-instances/linode-boot-into-rescue-mode/)), when attempting to reboot your Linode ([POST /linode/instances/{linodeId}/reboot](/docs/api/linode-instances/linode-reboot/)), you would receive an error message, `No bootable config found`. This bug has been fixed and the Linode will reboot into the latest configuration profile that isn't a rescue mode configuration profile.
- Restoring a Linode ([POST /linode/instances/{linodeId}/backups/{backupId}/restore](/docs/api/linode-instances/backup-restore/)) from a backup that was still in its post-processing phase returned the error message "*backup is not valid*". The error message has been updated to be more descriptive. Now, when you attempt to restore a Linode from a backup that is still post processing, the returned error message is "*Backup is currently post-processing*".
- Iterated on a bug fix with migrations, clones, and host information. If the migration is a disk **or** a clone, the `from_host` is the disk. Users can see migration job information in the Event endpoints:
  - `List Events` ([GET /account/events](/docs/api/account/events-list/))
  - `View Event` ([GET /account/events/{eventId}](/docs/api/account/event-view/))
- Fixed the url in the `Close Support Ticket` ([POST /support/tickets/{ticketId}/close](/docs/api/support/support-ticket-close/)) endpoint's Request Sample shell curl example.
