---
title: API v4.2.4
date: 2019-07-29
version: 4.2.4
---

### Added

- Added Personal Access Token event actions to the *List Events* endpoint ([GET /account/events](/docs/api/account/#events-list)) and *View Event* endpoint ([GET /account/events/:event_id](/docs/api/account/#event-view)).

    - `token_create` - This event will be issued when making requests to the *Create Personal Access Token* endpoint ([POST /profile/tokens](/docs/api/profile/#personal-access-token-create)).

    - `token_delete` - This event will be issued when making requests to the *Revoke Personal Access Token* endpoint ([DELETE /profile/tokens/:token_id](/docs/api/profile/#personal-access-token-revoke)).

    - `token_update` - This event will be issued when making requests to the *Update Personal Access Token* endpoint ([PUT /profile/tokens/:token_id](/docs/api/profile/#personal-access-token-update)).

- Added OAuth Client event actions to the *List Events* endpoint ([GET /account/events](/docs/api/account/#events-list)) and *View Event* endpoint ([GET /account/events/:event_id](/docs/api/account/#event-view)).

    - `oauth_client_create` - This event will be issued when making requests to the *Create OAuth Client* endpoint ([POST /account/oauth-clients](/docs/api/account/#oauth-client-create)).

    - `oauth_client_delete` - This event will be issued when making requests to the *Delete OAuth Client* endpoint ([DELETE /account/oauth-clients/:client_id](/docs/api/account/#oauth-client-delete)).

    - `oauth_client_secret_reset` - This event will be issued when making requests to the *Reset OAuth Client Secret* endpoint ([POST /account/oauth-clients/:client_id/reset_secret](/docs/api/account/#oauth-client-secret-reset)).

    - `oauth_client_update` - This event will be issued when making requests to the *Update OAuth Client* endpoint ([PUT /account/oauth-clients/:client_id](/docs/api/account/#oauth-client-update)).

- Added Tag event actions to the *List Events* endpoint ([GET /account/events](/docs/api/account/#events-list)) and *View Event* endpoint ([GET /account/events/:event_id](/docs/api/account/#event-view)).

    - `tag_create` - This event will be issued when making requests to the *Create New Tag* endpoint ([POST /tags](/docs/api/tags/#new-tag-create)).

    - `tag_delete` - This event will be issued when making requests to the *Delete a Tag* endpoint ([DELETE /tags/:label](/docs/api/tags/#tag-delete)).

### Fixed

- The *Execute Staged/Approved PayPal Payment* ([POST /account/payments/paypal/execute](/docs/api/account/#stagedapproved-paypal-payment-execute)) endpoint will return a more helpful error message whenever PayPal's services are temporarily unavailable.

- The entity field for an `ipaddress_update` event is now populated; it was previously null. Events are returned by the *List Events* ([GET /account/events](/docs/api/account/#events-list)) and *View Event* ([GET /account/events/:event_id](/docs/api/account/#event-view)) endpoints.

- The entity field for an `account_update` event is now populated; it was previously null. Events are returned by the *List Events* ([GET /account/events](/docs/api/account/#events-list)) and *View Event* ([GET /account/events/:event_id](/docs/api/account/#event-view)) endpoints.

- Calling the *Update Profile* endpoint ([PUT /profile](/docs/api/profile/#profile-update)) without specifying an email in your request could previously trigger a notification email. This notification's message stated that your email address had been updated, even though it was not changed. This will no longer occur.

- Previously, if the *Create Disk* ([POST /linode/instances/:linode_id/disks](/docs/api/linode-instances/#disk-create)) or *Create Linode* ([POST /linode/instances](/docs/api/linode-instances/#linode-create)) endpoints were called with a custom image and with a list for the `authorized_users` field, then those authorized users' keys were not configured for the root user of the new disk or Linode. Those keys will now be properly configured on the provisioned disk.
