---
title: API v4.2.3
date: 2019-07-15
version: 4.2.3
---

### Added

- Linode's new Mumbai data center is now an available region ([GET /regions](/docs/api/regions/regions-list/)).

- Added a new account cancellation endpoint: [POST /account/cancel](/docs/api/account/account-cancel/). This endpoint accepts an optional comments field and responds with a link to Linode's  exit survey.

- Added a new *profile\_update* event action to the List Events endpoint ([GET /account/events](/docs/api/account/events-list/)) and View Event endpoint ([GET /account/events/{eventId}](/docs/api/account/event-view/)).

    This event will be issued when making requests to the [PUT /profile](/docs/api/profile/profile-update/) and [PUT /profile/preferences](/docs/api/profile/user-preferences-update/) endpoints.

- Added User event actions to the List Events endpoint ([GET /account/events](/docs/api/account/events-list/)) and View Event endpoint ([GET /account/events/{eventId}](/docs/api/account/event-view/)).

    - *user\_create* - This event will be issued when making requests to the [POST /account/users](/docs/api/account/user-create/) endpoint.

    - *user\_update* - This event will be issued when making requests to the [PUT /account/users/{username}](/docs/api/account/user-update/) and [PUT /account/users/{username}/grants](/docs/api/account/users-grants-update/) endpoints.

    - *user\_delete* - This event will be issued when making requests to the [DELETE /account/users/{username}](/docs/api/account/user-delete/) endpoint.

### Changed

- Changed behavior of the *configs* parameter for the [POST /linode/instances/{linodeId}/clone](/docs/api/linode-instances/linode-clone/) endpoint. When an empty array is passed to the *configs* parameter, no configuration profiles will be cloned from the source Linode.

    Previously, all configuration profiles would be cloned. All behaviors of the *disks* and *configs* parameters for this endpoint are now more extensively documented in the API reference.

### Fixed

- When updating the email of an account ([PUT /account](/docs/api/account/account-update/)) or of a user ([PUT /profile](/docs/api/profile/profile-update/)), Linode will now send an email notification to the previous email address that describes this change.

- Fixed an issue where a user could not set permissions on a domain that contained errors.

- Fixed a malformed URL in the response for the Enable Managed Service endpoint ([POST /managed/services/{serviceId}/enable](/docs/api/managed/managed-service-enable/)).

- Fixed an issue in which SRV records could only be assigned a port number below 32767. Any port number is now accepted.

- Fixed a login error that could appear after a user's session had expired, if the user also had two-factor authentication enabled.

- Reduced response time for the [GET /support/tickets](/docs/api/support/support-tickets-list/) endpoint.