---
title: API v4.4.0
date: 2019-09-09
version: 4.4.0
---

### Added

- Added a `secondary_entity` property to the [GET /account/events](/docs/api/account/#events-list) and [GET /account/events/{eventId}](/docs/api/account/#event-view) endpoints. A `secondary_entity` object displays information about an additional entity that is related to the Event. Currently, the `linode_boot`, `linode_create`, and `linode_clone` Event actions can generate a `secondary_entity` object.

- Added convenience Object Storage beta endpoints for the Early Access Program. It is recommended to use the more fully-featured [S3 API](https://docs.ceph.com/docs/mimic/radosgw/s3/#) directly instead of these endpoints. **Note**: these endpoints are prepended with **`/v4beta`** instead of `/v4`.

    - List Object Storage Buckets ([GET /object-storage/buckets](/docs/api/object-storage/#object-storage-buckets-list))
    - Create Object Storage Bucket ([POST /object-storage/buckets](/docs/api/object-storage/#object-storage-bucket-create))
    - View Object Storage Bucket ([GET /object-storage/buckets/{clusterId}/{bucket}](/docs/api/object-storage/#object-storage-bucket-view))
    - Remove Object Storage Bucket ([DELETE /object-storage/buckets/{clusterId}/{bucket}](/docs/api/object-storage/#object-storage-bucket-remove))
    - Modify Object Storage Bucket Access ([POST /object-storage/buckets/{clusterId}/{bucket}/access](/docs/api/object-storage/#object-storage-bucket-access-modify))
    - List Object Storage Bucket Contents ([GET /object-storage/buckets/{clusterId}/{bucket}/object-list](/docs/api/object-storage/#object-storage-bucket-contents-list))
    - Create Object Storage Object URL ([POST /object-storage/buckets/{clusterId}/{bucket}/object-url](/docs/api/object-storage/#object-storage-object-url-create))

### Changed

- The `group` property of the Managed Contacts ([/managed/contacts](/docs/api/managed/#managed-contact-create)) resource is no longer deprecated.
- The `consultation_group` property of the Managed Services ([/managed/services](/docs/api/managed/#managed-services-list)) resource is no longer deprecated.

### Fixed

- Previously, you could initiate a cross data center (DC) migration ([POST /linode/instances/{linodeId}/migrate](/docs/api/linode-instances/#dc-migrationpending-host-migration-initiate)) even if the Linode already had a pending migration in the queue. Now, if your Linode has a pending migration already queued, you will not be able to initiate a DC migration until it has completed and you will receive an error response, "Linode has a pending migration." A list of pending migrations, if any, can be accessed from [GET /account/notifications](/docs/api/account/#notifications-list).

- Validation to ensure a running Linode is powered down prior to initiating a cross data center (DC) migration ([POST /linode/instances/{linodeId}/migrate](/docs/api/linode-instances/#dc-migrationpending-host-migration-initiate)) was removed. This validation is unnecessary because a Linode is automatically powered off, migrated, and then restored to its previous boot state when any Linode migration is initiated.

- The `group` property of a managed contacts resource can now be updated ([PUT /managed/contacts/{contactId}](/docs/api/managed/#managed-contact-update)) with a null value. Previous PUT validation generated an error when the `group` property was updated with a null value.

- When updating ([PUT /linode/stackscripts/{stackscriptId}](/docs/api/stackscripts/#stackscript-update)) a StackScripts resource, the `images` property no longer accepts an empty array. Previously, there was no validation in place to prevent an empty `images` property array. This caused a StackScript to no longer be deployable.

- When listing Managed Services ([GET /managed/services](/docs/api/managed/#managed-services-list)) on a managed account, removed services no longer appear in the response data.

- A Managed Credential now correctly maps to a Managed Service. Previously, when you created ([POST /managed/services](/docs/api/managed/#managed-service-create)) or updated ([PUT /managed/services/{serviceId}](/docs/api/managed/#managed-service-update)) a Managed Service with a `credentials` parameter, its Managed Credential Ids did not appropriately map to the service. This resulted in an empty `credentials` array when listing ([GET /managed/services](/docs/api/managed/#managed-services-list)) or viewing ([GET /managed/services/{serviceId}](/docs/api/managed/#managed-service-view)) a Managed Service.
