---
title: API v4.5.0
date: 2019-09-23
version: 4.5.0
---

### Added

- Added the Enable Linode Managed ([POST /account/settings/managed-enable](/docs/api/account/#linode-managed-enable)) endpoint to Account.
    - This endpoint enables Linode Managed for the entire account and sends a welcome email to the account’s associated email address.
    - [Linode Managed](/docs/platform/linode-managed/) is an incident response service that can monitor any software stack or service reachable over TCP or HTTP.

### Changed

- The List Notifications endpoint ([GET /account/notifications](/docs/api/account/#notifications-list)) now provides more detailed information when a pending host migration or DC migration ([POST /linode/instances/{linodeId}/migrate](/docs/api/linode-instances/#dc-migrationpending-host-migration-initiate)) for a Linode is initiated. This information includes:

  - How many Linodes are in the queue ahead of your Linode. The Linode's position is dynamically generated, so if the notification is retrieved at an interval, it is always up-to-date.

- The convenience endpoint List Object Storage Bucket Contents ([GET /object-storage/buckets/{clusterId}/{bucket}/object-list] (/docs/api/object-storage/#object-storage-bucket-contents-list)) now returns two new parameters to help with pagination:
    - `is_truncated`, a boolean which is true if there is another page of objects and
    - `next_marker`, a string value to pass to the `marker` query parameter to get the next page of objects.

### Fixed

- Previously, when restoring a Linode from a backup ([POST /linode/instances/{linodeId}/backups/{backupId}/restore](/docs/api/linode-instances/#backup-restore)) with `overwrite:true`, some disks on the Linode were not properly deleted. This bug has been fixed. Additionally, the check to determine if the Linode has enough free disk space during a backup restore has been improved.

- The List Support Tickets endpoint ([GET /support/tickets](/docs/api/support/#support-tickets-list)) will now properly honor the `order_by` and `x-filter` query parameters.
