---
title: API v4.60.0
date: 2020-03-23
version: 4.60.0
---
### Added

- The field `authentication_type` has been added to View Profile ([GET /profile](/docs/api/profile/profile-view/)) and Update Profile ([PUT /profile](/docs/api/profile/profile-update/)). `authentication_type` returns your account's Cloud Manager authentication type. Currently, a user's password (in conjunction with their username) is the only available authentication type.

- The `name` field for Create Domain Record ([POST /domains/{domainId}/records](/docs/api/domains/domain-record-create/)) and Update Domain Record ([PUT /domains/{domainId}/records/{recordId}](/docs/api/domains/domain-record-update/)) now accepts wildcards for Domain Records of type `TXT`.

- Logic was added to the [Account](/docs/api/account/account-view/) collection to generate an Account Notification ([GET /account/notifications](/docs/api/account/notifications-list/)) when your account's associated email address bounces ([GET /v4/account ](/docs/api/account/account-view/)) and when an account user's email address bounces ([GET /account/users/{username}](/docs/api/account/user-view/)).

- The View Volume ([GET /volumes/{volumeId}](/docs/api/volumes/volume-view/)) and List Volumes ([GET /volumes](/docs/api/volumes/volumes-list/)) endpoints now have a `linode_label` field. If a Volume is attached to a specific Linode, the label of that Linode will be returned by the `linode_label` field.

### Fixed

- Corrected the field for unit price in the List Invoice Items ([GET /account/invoices/{invoiceId}/items](/docs/api/account/invoice-items-list/)) endpoint. Previously, this field was listed as `unitprice` with type `number`. It is now correctly listed as `unit_price` with type `string`.

- When a Linode that was deployed from a [StackScript](/docs/api/stackscripts/stackscripts-list/) is deleted, that StackScript's `deployments_active` value should decrease. This property's value was incorrectly reporting the number of active deployments for a StackScript. While this bug was addressed in a previous API release, additional work was completed to improve the previous fix.

- Changes were made to improve the performance of the List Networking Information ([GET /linode/instances/{linodeId}/ips](/docs/api/linode-instances/networking-information-list/)) endpoint.