---
title: API v4.69.0
date: 2020-07-13
version: 4.69.0
---

### Added

- A `disks` field was added to the [Linode Kubernetes Engine (LKE)](/docs/api/linode-kubernetes-engine-lke/#kubernetes-clusters-list) collection. This field allows you to define a custom disk layout for the nodes in a cluster's [Node Pool](/docs/api/linode-kubernetes-engine-lke/#node-pool-create). A custom disk layout is only required for specific use cases. If this field is omitted, the nodes in a Node Pool will have a default disk layout consisting of a single partition. The `disks` field is available from the following endpoints:

    - Create Kubernetes Cluster ([POST /lke/clusters](/docs/api/linode-kubernetes-engine-lke/#kubernetes-cluster-create)).
    - Create Node Pool ([POST /lke/clusters/{clusterId}/pools](/docs/api/linode-kubernetes-engine-lke/#node-pool-create))
    - View Node Pool ([GET /lke/clusters/{clusterId}/pools/{poolId}](/docs/api/linode-kubernetes-engine-lke/#node-pool-view))

- When Listing Account Events ([GET /v4/account/events](/docs/api/account/#events-list)), you can now filter by its `action` field. See [Filtering and Sorting](/docs/api/) to learn how to search API v4 collections.

### Changed

- Added improved error handling for the `ssl_cert` and `ssl_key` fields in the NodeBalancer collection. Error messages will now explain if a provided key is in an incorrect format. These fields are available from the following endpoints:

  - Create Config ([POST /nodebalancers/{nodeBalancerId}/configs](/docs/api/nodebalancers/#config-create))

  - Update Config ([PUT /nodebalancers/{nodeBalancerId}/configs/{configId}](/docs/api/nodebalancers/#config-update))

- The `tag` field for the [Domain Record](/docs/api/domains/#domain-record-create) collection is now filterable. See [Filtering and Sorting](/docs/api/) to learn how to search API v4 collections.

### Fixed

- A bug was fixed that allowed multiple Account Users to be created with the same `username`. This bug affected the Create User ([POST /account/users](/docs/api/account/#user-create)) and Update User ([PUT /account/users/{username}](/docs/api/account/#user-update)) endpoints.

- Combined the `LKEClusterRequestBody` into the `LKECluste`r schema object and removed the `LKEClusterRequestBody` object within the [APIv4 OpenAPI 3 reference](https://github.com/linode/linode-api-docs). This change fixed some display issues on the [Linode API Documentation](/docs/api/) website for the [Linode Kubernetes Engine Endpoint](/docs/api/linode-kubernetes-engine-lke/#kubernetes-clusters-list) collection.

- When creating an LKE Cluster ([POST /lke/clusters](/docs/api/linode-kubernetes-engine-lke/#kubernetes-cluster-create)) or updating an LKE Cluster ([PUT /lke/clusters/{clusterId}](/docs/api/linode-kubernetes-engine-lke/#kubernetes-cluster-update)), the `label` field supports valid Unicode outside of the ASCII table. Previously, the APIv4 reference listed the incorrect character limitations for this field.