---
title: API v4.64.0
date: 2020-05-04
version: 4.64.0
---

### Added

- When attempting to stage a PayPal payment ([POST /account/payments/paypal/execute](/docs/api/account/#stagedapproved-paypal-payment-execute)) on an account that has been flagged for no charge, you will receive the following error message, `This account cannot be charged`.

- The Profile collection's `authentication_type` field can now return a value of `github` when GitHub Third Party Authentication is enabled for your Profile.

    - Authentication types are chosen through Cloud Manager and authorized when logging into your account.

    **Note** this functionality is not yet available in Cloud Manager. See the [Cloud Manager Changelog](/changelog/cloud-manager/) for the latest updates.

- Added the View Network Transfer (year/month) ([GET /linode/instances/{linodeId}/transfer/{year}/{month}](/docs/api/linode-instances/#network-transfer-view-yearmonth)) endpoint.

    - This endpoint returns a Linode's inbound, outbound, and total public network transfer statistics for the specified year and month.

### Fixed

- A bug was fixed that was preventing Block Storage Volumes from successfully attaching to Linodes running Debian 10.

- Previously, uninvoiced balances were being calculated as slightly lower than their actual amount. This bug was fixed to correctly calculate uninvoiced balances.

    - You can view your account's uninvoiced balance using the View Account endpoint ([GET /account](/docs/api/account/#account-view)).

- Additional logic was added to the [Kubernetes](/docs/api/linode-kubernetes-engine-lke/#kubernetes-clusters-list) collection to ensure that Linode Kubernetes Engine (LKE) service account usernames are less likely to be non-unique.