---
title: API v4.72.0
date: 2020-08-10
version: 4.72.0
---

### Added

- The IPv4 and IPv6 addresses of the DNS resolvers for a region are now accessible at the View Region ([GET /regions/{regionId}](/docs/api/regions/#region-view)) endpoint.

### Changed

- Changing your Longview subscription is no longer available at the Update Account Settings ([PUT /account/settings](/docs/api/account/#account-settings-update)) endpoint. Accordingly, the `longview_subscription` property has been removed from the Update Account Settings request body. To update your Longview plan, please use the Update Longview Plan ([PUT /longview/plan](/docs/api/longview/#longview-plan-update)) endpoint.

- Updated the description and response for the View Longview Plan ([GET /longview/plan](/docs/api/longview/#longview-plan-view)) endpoint:
    - The previous description stated that this endpoint returns a `longview_subscription` ID. This has been corrected to state that the response consists of a LongviewSubscription object for your current Longview Pro plan, or an empty set `{}` if your current plan is Longview Free.
    - The response body and sample have been updated to include the details of the returned LongviewSubscription object for your current Longview plan.

- Accessing the View Longview Plan ([GET /longview/plan](/docs/api/longview/#longview-plan-view)) endpoint now requires one of the following `global` [User Grants](/docs/api/account/#users-grants-view):
    - `"account_access": read_write`
    - `"account_access": read_only`
    - `"longview_subscription": true`
    - `"add_longview": true`

- Updated the description, request, and response for the Update Longview Plan ([PUT /longview/plan](/docs/api/longview/#longview-plan-update)) endpoint:
    - The previous description stated that this endpoint returns a `longview_subscription` ID. The description has been corrected to state that the response consists of a `LongviewSubscription` object for the updated Longview Pro plan, or an empty set `{}` if the updated plan is Longview Free.
    - Accessing this endpoint now requires `"longview_subscription": true` as a `global` [User Grant](/docs/api/account/#users-grants-view).
    - The required OAuth scope has been changed from `account:read_write` to `longview:read_write`.
    - The request body schema has been updated to specify possible values for the `longview_subscription` field and to reflect that it is nullable, with a `null` value corresponding to Longview Free.
    - The response body and sample have been updated to include the details of the returned `LongviewSubscription` object.

- Updated the response for the List Longview Subscriptions ([GET /longview/subscription](/docs/api/longview/#longview-subscriptions-list)) and View Longview Subscription ([GET /longview/subscriptions/{subscriptionID}](/docs/api/longview/#longview-subscription-view)) endpoint:
    - The response `id` property has been revised to specify possible values.

- Updated the Object Storage Bucket response schema to include the `size` property in the List Object Storage Buckets ([GET /object-storage/buckets](/docs/api/object-storage/#object-storage-buckets-list)), Create Object Storage Bucket ([POST /object-storage/buckets](/docs/api/object-storage/#object-storage-bucket-create)), View Object Storage Bucket ([GET /object-storage/buckets/{clusterId}/{bucket}](/docs/api/object-storage/#object-storage-bucket-view)), and List Object Storage Buckets in Cluster ([GET /object-storage/buckets/{clusterId}](/docs/api/object-storage/#object-storage-buckets-in-cluster-list)) endpoints.

### Fixed

- A bug that prevented the Update Longview Plan ([PUT /longview/plan](/docs/api/longview/#longview-plan-update)) endpoint from functioning has been fixed. The endpoint will now update your account's Longview plan as expected.
