---
title: API v4.77.0
date: 2020-10-05
version: 4.77.0
---

### Added

- Added the `message` field to the Event schema object. The message field provides additional information about the event. Additional information may include, but is not limited to, a more detailed representation of events which can help diagnose non-obvious failures. This new field is available on the following Account Event endpoints:

    - Event List ([GET /account/events](/docs/api/account/events-list/))
    - Event View ([GET /account/events/{eventId}](/docs/api/account/event-view/))

- Added the `deprecated` field to the Kernel schema object. If this Kernel is marked as deprecated, this field has a value of true; otherwise, this field is false. This new field is available on the Linode Instances Kernel endpoints:

    - Kernels List ([GET /linode/kernels](/docs/api/linode-instances/kernels-list/))
    - Kernel View ([GET /linode/kernels/{kernelId}](/docs/api/linode-instances/kernel-view/))

### Changed

- Updated the endpoint names to follow the convention `noun` followed by `verb`. For example, `View Account` is now named `Account View`.

- Updated the description for the Object Storage Key Create ([POST /object-storage/keys](/docs/api/object-storage/object-storage-key-create/)) endpoint with information on the available Access Key and Limited Access Key creation options.

- Updated the `bucket_access` field description in the `ObjectStorageKey` schema object with a note about the results of omitting this field when creating a limited access Object Storage Key.

### Fixed

- The User's Grants View ([GET /account/users/{username}/grants](/docs/api/account/users-grants-view/)) endpoint was updated to have a less restrictive authorization of `account:read_only` instead of `account:read_write`. This fixes the discrepancy between specification and endpoint behavior.