---
title: API v4.74.0
date: 2020-09-08
version: 4.74.0
---

### Added

- Added the *Reset Linode Root Password* ([POST /linode/instances/{linodeId}/password](/docs/api/linode-instances/linode-root-password-reset/)) endpoint to the *Linode Instances* collection. Use this endpoint to reset the root password for a Linode.

- Added the `bucket_access` field to the *Create an Object Storage Key* ([POST /object-storage/keys](/docs/api/object-storage/object-storage-key-create/)) endpoint. This field defines an Object Storage key as a *Limited Access Key*. Limited Access Keys have access to only the bucket(s) that are specified along with `read_write` or `read_only` bucket-level permissions. Limited Access Keys can:

    - [list all buckets](/docs/api/object-storage/object-storage-buckets-list/) available on an Account, but cannot perform any actions on a bucket unless it has access to the bucket.

    - [create new buckets](/docs/api/object-storage/object-storage-bucket-create/), but does not have any access to the buckets it creates, unless explicitly given access to them.

- [NodeBalancers](https://www.linode.com/products/nodebalancers/) now support Proxy Protocol with the addition of the `proxy_protocol` field. Proxy Protocol sends TCP client connection information, like source and destination IP addresses and port numbers, to your NodeBalancer's backend nodes. This new field is available in the following NodeBalancer endpoints:

    - List Configs ([GET /nodebalancers/{nodeBalancerId}/configs](/docs/api/nodebalancers/configs-list/))
    - Create Config ([POST /nodebalancers/{nodeBalancerId}/configs](/docs/api/nodebalancers/config-create/))
    - View Config ([GET /nodebalancers/{nodeBalancerId}/configs/{configId}](/docs/api/nodebalancers/config-view/))
    - Update Config ([PUT /nodebalancers/{nodeBalancerId}/configs/{configId}](/docs/api/nodebalancers/config-update/))
    - Delete Config ([DELETE /nodebalancers/{nodeBalancerId}/configs/{configId}](/docs/api/nodebalancers/config-delete/))
    - Rebuild Config ([POST /nodebalancers/{nodeBalancerId}/configs/{configId}/rebuild](/docs/api/nodebalancers/config-rebuild/))

- The [APIv4 OpenAPI 3 reference](https://github.com/linode/linode-api-docs) now correctly documents the `prefix` and `route_target` fields as part of the [List IPv6 Ranges](/docs/api/networking/ipv/6-ranges-list) endpoint. Previously, these fields were mistakenly left out of the APIv4 OpenAPI 3 reference.
