---
title: API v4.79.0
date: 2020-11-03
version: 4.79.0
---
### Added

- Added the Object Storage Object ACL View ([GET /object-storage/buckets/{clusterId}/{bucket}/object-acl](/docs/api/object-storage/object-storage-object-acl-config-view/)) endpoint. This endpoint returns an Object's currently configured Access Control List (ACL) within a specific bucket. ACLs define who can access your buckets and objects and specify the level of access granted to those users.

- Added the Object Storage Object ACL Update ([PUT /object-storage/buckets/{clusterId}/{bucket}/object-acl](/docs/api/object-storage/object-storage-object-acl-config-update/)) endpoint. This endpoint update's an Object's currently configured Access Control List (ACL) within a specific bucket. ACLs define who can access your buckets and objects and specify the level of access granted to those users.

- Added the Object Storage Bucket Access Update ([PUT /object-storage/buckets/{clusterId}/{bucket}/access](/docs/api/object-storage/object-storage-bucket-access-update/)) endpoint. Use this endpoint to update a bucket's basic Cross-origin Resource Sharing (CORS) and Access Control Level (ACL) settings.

- Added the Object Storage Transfer View ([GET /object-storage/transfer](/docs/api/object-storage/object-storage-object-acl-config-view/)) endpoint. This endpoint returns the amount of outbound data transfer used by your account's Object Storage buckets. Object Storage adds 1 terabyte of outbound data transfer to your data transfer pool. See the [Object Storage Pricing](/docs/products/storage/object-storage/#pricing) guide for details on Object Storage transfer quotas.

- Added the `objects` field to the following Object Storage endpoints:

    - Object Storage Buckets List ([GET /object-storage/buckets](/docs/api/object-storage/object-storage-buckets-list/))
    - Object Storage Buckets in Cluster List ([GET /object-storage/buckets/{clusterId}](/docs/api/object-storage/object-storage-buckets-in-cluster-list/))
    - Object Storage Bucket View ([GET /object-storage/buckets/{clusterId}/{bucket}](/docs/api/object-storage/object-storage-bucket-view/))

    The `object` field returns the number of objects stored in a bucket.

### Fixed

- Error messages for Firewall endpoints have been improved. When applicable, they now return a [Firewall Device's](/docs/api/networking/firewall-device-create/) `label` and `id`.

- Fixed the Ticket Attachment Create ([POST /support/tickets/{ticketId}/attachments](/docs/api/support/ticket-attachment-create/)) endpoint's SHELL example with the correct way to attach a file when creating a support ticket.
