---
title: API v4.86.0
date: 2021-03-09
version: 4.86.0
---

### Added

- The following endpoints for the new Service Transfer feature, which enables transfers of Linodes between customer accounts, have been added:
    - Service Transfers List ([GET /account/service-transfers](/docs/api/account/service-transfers-list/)). Returns a collection of all created and accepted Service Transfers.
    - Service Transfer Create ([POST /account/service-transfers](/docs/api/account/service-transfer-create/)). Creates a transfer request for the specified services. At this time, only Linodes can be transferred.
    - Service Transfer Cancel ([DELETE /account/service-transfers/{token}](/docs/api/account/service-transfer-cancel/)). Cancels the Service Transfer for the provided token.
    - Service Transfer View ([GET /account/service-transfers/{token}](/docs/api/account/service-transfer-view/)). Returns the details of the Service Transfer for the provided token.
    - Service Transfer Accept ([POST /account/service-transfers/{token}/accept](/docs/api/account/service-transfer-accept/)). Accept an Service Transfer for the provided token to receive the services included in the transfer to your account.

### Changed

- The following endpoints have been deprecated:
    - Entity Transfers List ([GET /account/entity-transfers](/docs/api/account/entity-transfers-list/)).
    - Entity Transfer Create ([POST /account/entity-transfers](/docs/api/account/entity-transfer-create/)).
    - Entity Transfer Cancel ([DELETE /account/entity-transfers/{token}](/docs/api/account/entity-transfer-cancel/)).
    - Entity Transfer View ([GET /account/entity-transfers/{token}](/docs/api/account/entity-transfer-view/)).
    - Entity Transfer Accept ([POST /account/entity-transfers/{token}/accept](/docs/api/account/entity-transfer-accept/)).

- The Firewall Create ([POST /networking/firewalls](/docs/api/networking/firewall-create/)) beta endpoint has been updated with the following:
    - The required `rules.inbound_policy` and `rules.outbound_policy` properties were added to allow controlling default behavior for inbound and outbound traffic, respectively.
    - The `rules.inbound.action` and `rules.outbound.action` properties were added to control traffic for individual rules. These properties are required for inbound and outbound rules and override the `rules.inbound_policy` and `rules.outbound_policy` properties, respectively.
    - Previously, `rules.inbound` was required. It is now optional.
    - The `rules.inbound.label`, `rules.inbound.description`, `rules.outbound.label`, and `rules.outbound.description` properties were added for organization and display purposes.
    - Previously, up to five active Firewalls could be assigned to a single Linode service. Now, only one active Firewall can be assigned to a single Linode service.

### Fixed

- A bug has been fixed that prevented correct filtering for the Service Transfers List ([GET /account/service-transfers](/docs/api/account/service-transfers-list/)) endpoint `is_sender` property.

- The Volume Attach ([POST /volumes/{volumeId}/attach](/docs/api/volumes/volume-attach/)) endpoint erroneously marked the `linode_id` property as nullable and required. This has been corrected to state that the property is optional and only accepts an integer.