---
title: API v4.84.0
date: 2021-02-15
version: 4.84.0
---

### Added

- The following endpoints for the new Entity Transfer feature, which enables transfers of Linodes between customer accounts, have been added:

    - Entity Transfers List ([GET /account/entity-transfers](/docs/api/account/#entity-transfers-list)). Returns a collection of all created and accepted Entity Transfers.
    - Entity Transfer Create ([POST /account/entity-transfers](/docs/api/account/#entity-transfer-create)). Creates a transfer request for the specified entities. At this time, only Linodes can be transferred.
    - Entity Transfer Cancel ([DELETE /account/entity-transfers/{token}](/docs/api/account/#entity-transfer-cancel)). Cancels the Entity Transfer for the provided token.
    - Entity Transfer View ([GET /account/entity-transfers/{token}](/docs/api/account/#entity-transfer-view)). Returns the details of the Entity Transfer for the provided token.
    - Entity Transfer Accept ([POST /account/entity-transfers/{token}/accept](/docs/api/account/#entity-transfer-accept)). Accept an Entity Transfer for the provided token to receive the entities included in the transfer to your account.

- The Linode Firewalls List ([GET /linode/instances/{linodeId}/firewalls](/docs/api/linode-instances/#firewalls-list)) endpoint has been added. This endpoint provides Firewall information for Firewalls associated with a particular Linode.

### Changed

- The request body schema for the Domain Record Create ([POST /domains/{domainId}/records](/docs/api/domains/#domain-record-create)) endpoint has been updated to include details regarding the different functions of the `name` and `target` properties for all record types. Previously, only minor details for the `A` and `AAAA` record types were provided.

- The request body schema for the Firewalls Create ([POST /networking/firewalls](/docs/api/networking/#firewall-create)) beta endpoint has been updated to specify that the `label` property is now required and must be unique.

### Fixed

- The shell request sample for the Volume Attach ([POST /volumes/{volumeId}/attach](/docs/api/volumes/#volume-attach)) endpoint erroneously stated a PUT request. It has been corrected to state a POST request.