---
title: API v4.89.0
date: 2021-04-05
version: 4.89.0
---

### Added

- The VLANs List ([GET /networking/vlans](/docs/api/networking/vlans-list/)) beta endpoint has been added. VLANs provide a mechanism for secure communication between two or more Linodes that are assigned to the same VLAN and are both within the same Layer 2 broadcast domain. VLANs can be created and attached to Linodes by using the new `interfaces` property at the following endpoints:
    - Linode Create ([POST /linode/instances](/docs/api/linode-instances/linode-create/))
    - Configuration Profile Create ([POST /linode/instances/{linodeId}/configs](/docs/api/linode-instances/configuration-profile-create/))
    - Configuration Profile Update ([PUT /linode/instances/{linodeId}/configs/{configId}](/docs/api/linode-instances/configuration-profile-update/))

### Changed

- The Account Update ([PUT /account](/docs/api/account/account-update/)) endpoint `zip` property has been updated with new restrictions. Previously, the `zip` only had a 16 character limit. Now, `zip` may only consist of letters, numbers, spaces, and hyphens, and must not contain more than 9 letter or number characters. These conditions must also be satisfied when accessing the Credit Card Add/Edit ([POST /account/credit-card](/docs/api/account/credit-card-addedit/)) endpoint.

### Fixed

- Previously, users without read-write access to Longview Clients could still access their `api_key` and `install_code` when accessing the Longview Clients List ([GET /longview/clients](/docs/api/longview/longview-clients-list/)) and Longview Client View ([GET /longview/clients/{clientId}](/docs/api/longview/longview-client-view/)) endpoints. Now, `[REDACTED]` is returned for these properties for users without read-write access to the associated Longview Clients.

- Previously, the `label` property for the Linode Create ([POST /linode/instances](/docs/api/linode-instances/linode-create/)) request body schema lacked a type specification and restriction. The endpoint's request body schema has been refactored to include the `string` type specification and the restriction that Linode labels must end with an alphanumeric character.